---
layout: page
title: thoughts about logic
tags: logic
categories: study
---

# About wave-particle duality of light after reading a book about logic

When we say "light is a kind of wave," we are asserting that light exhibits attributes characteristic of waves. This assertion is supported by experiments that highlight certain wave-like properties of light. Subsequently, we extrapolate from these findings to conclude that light also possesses other attributes typical of waves.

Similarly, when we claim "light is a kind of particle," we are making a parallel statement. Experimental evidence demonstrates particle-like characteristics of light, leading us to the conclusion that light shares commonalities with particles.

However, a challenge arises because, in our everyday understanding, waves and particles appear fundamentally distinct. More precisely, a wave is often considered an action or behavior of a particle. The apparent dichotomy between waves and particles can lead to confusion.

The concept of "wave-particle duality" addresses this apparent contradiction by proposing that light is a phenomenon embodying both wave-like and particle-like attributes. In other words, light is a dual entity, exhibiting characteristics of both waves and particles. We term this coexistence of wave and particle attributes in light as "wave-particle duality."

<!-- When we say "light is a kind of wave", we mean that light has the attributes of a wave. We prove it by an experiment pointing out that light has some attributes of the wave, and then we conclude that light has other attributes of the wave. That's what we mean when we say "light is a kind of wave".

"Light is a kind of particle" is the same.

But because in a common vision, the wave is not a bit the same as a particle, or to be more precise, the wave is a kind of an action of a particle, which means a thing can't be a wave and be a particle at the same time. It's a cause of fallacy.

So, "light has wave-particle duality" means light is a thing, that has the attributes of a wave and a particle, we call this thing having wave-particle duality. -->